A case you cut some code that should run.
So let's run the app a few times and see what happens when we don't know and accept the permissions.
Now I'm going to be running this on our IPR 27 emulator that was set up previously.
Now we know that it worked on the IPO 21 works the IPO 22 and below that we tested again on that version.
Once everything is finished it is a good idea to retest when you make changes to cater for particular
Android versions just in case the changes break something in the early versions but we'll leave that
final testing on IPR 21 and two we've made all the changes we need to make.
So the first thing I've done is start by IP 4:27 emulator.
I'm going to make sure that the apps that installed and I'm going to do here is quite to their content
provider example I'm just going to I want to let starting with a fresh installation so on the same thing
by going into settings and apps notifications that I recorded look for IP and they obviously have deleted
that now.
So that's what we've seen previously that we can get a lot of irrelevant entries into LOLcat.
So I'm going to get back to android studio and open LOLcat but I'm going to filter in on main activity
and I'm going to run the app
and I'm going to try just a floating plane mode as well just to make sure that you're using subtopics
is to say we're doing this so I'll go ahead and do that.
So just to verify Now the app is running.
You can see that it's running here but back in the low cut we can say we've got chick self permission
returned a negative one requesting permission then on create and so I can tell you that the request
permission method has retuned and uncreate has finished.
So my activity now is in the running state and can be destroyed by the Android system if something like
an incoming phone call comes in.
And that's great because the apps not blocking that waits for the user to do with the dialog.
So speaking of the dollar we'll get back and check that out.
We can see the dollar there it's popping up and it says allow content provider example to access your
contacts deny or allow.
So we're going to start here by allowing the permission and we'll see what happens in the lockup in
Sahid that time we've got permission granted basically on request permission results Stott's permission
granted now on request permission results in.
So that's working fine.
And just to confirm that because back to I mean we like to run our clock rather the fab the funny hats
button you can see we've got two entries now showing.
Right.
Next let's see what happens when the app runs.
Now that permission has been granted so it stopped the app and was started again.
And you can see what's happened here and to check.
So permission Materne zero at this time.
Permission granted then uncreate ends.
So this time check self permission to seek and say returned 0 which is permission granted.
So the app is ready to use.
In other words with the raid on the school context permission it needs and if it just confirmed that
by tapping the fighting button it could say we get the results returned and so that's right.
Once the permission has been granted by the user the app keeps that permission.
H.
Thomas launched her let's go to the next test.
We need to uninstall the application and this time we're going to try denying the request.
Well it's got to stop the app.
I'm just going to go into settings
apps and notifications and recently I've been apps he's quite useful stuff.
Click on that and install it on a stone How are starting with a clean slate again.
And if we run it again we should be back to where we were before just checking the logs there.
It starts chick self-perceptions return negative one requesting permission and maybe is now asking for
access to the contents that are not allowed to log.
And again that's as expected because we can install the app.
This time we're going to deny the request and see what happens in our permission refused and ends in
OK.
Now we haven't checked the value of a billion field in the On Click list for the sliding action button.
So consequently when I tapped that we're going to get a fresh there because we haven't got permission
to access the contacts.
We're going to leave you to deal with that a bit later in the next video because that sounds like a
good challenge for next hour before we get to that let's run a few more tests.
So what we're going to do is come back and started again.
Because it's requesting permission again we get back to locate the same a similar dialogue the last
time but this time around here we've got this don't ask again with a checkbox to the left hand side.
So I'm not going to change that just yet but I won't deny the request again.
So let's do that justice.
With the case was last Tom permission refused and that's nothing.
We didn't expect and we're not going to tap on the flying action but we can because we know that it
will just crushed up.
Instead what we'll do is we'll just run up again.
Back to judge studio run it again
same deal with requesting permission and we asked again this time whether we are going to allow permission
to get the same don't ask again box or what's we're going to allow this to have we can see over there
we've got permission granted you know low cut and click on the funding button and surprisingly things
are working.
All right so there's one more test we need to do now.
So I'm going to do is close down the hat this time I'm going to go into settings and revoke the permission.
Remember that tab we've allowed the permission so I'm going to go into settings apps and notifications
going to the content provider example and have it come back to permissions.
You can say you've got contex permission with a slot here and it's currently enabled to the screen by
the way is new in Android Mashpee I want above.
So if you're running this test on an IP or 21:18 either we wouldn't have this option.
And one thing to note is that this option appears because we are running on a device that's using API
23 or however you know if we set the target as Teekay to 21 then how app would be treated by Android
as a legacy app.
And although this option would still be available we'd actually get a warning if we try to change it.
Now that makes sense because apps written before Google changed the security model have no way of dealing
with a permission being revoked.
So the Android framework checks and if they were written for Android versions prior to April 23 that
this warning a piece to let users know that things might break what.
So what I'm going to do here is revoke the permission and see what happens when I on the up again.
I want to click over here to revive it and we'll run the app again.
You going back to the emulator and you could say it's now asking us whether we want to allow access
again and again that's not surprising because we did not the permission.
So the important lesson from this last test is just because your rap had a permission to lie you can't
rely on it still having that permission tomorrow.
When we're dealing with permissions we have to make sure our code can cope with a situation where permission
isn't granted or what's for the farto test for now at least we're going to take on this.
We're going to take We'll check the don't ask again box and then I'm going to deny the permission.
Getting back to our law kept permission with Fury's which we would expect and a crush if we try and
access part of planning session button.
So now by clicking on that checkbox the users are asked not to be part of the game so it won't matter
how many times when I run the app and request permissions get cold.
You never could be granted permission.
So let's just confirm that on request permission.
Result starts.
Permission refused.
And looking it out at me later we've gotten our taluk box clicking on the filing option button and the
up questions again.
So basically the users have never gotten to be asked again if the permission was only needed for some
minor function or the app such as sharing fries with the main purposes taking them then you could just
disable that particular function.
But this app pretty useless without permission to access the context.
Because that's all it does.
So the core functionality is now disabled before we look at dealing with that.
One thing we should do is prevent that from crushing when it doesn't have permission.
So that does nothing is pretty bad but we don't want to get a reputation for running apps that crash.
So what I'm going to do is decide what the flighting action button if we don't have permission to access
the contacts.
Basically I'm going to rock to cut the kind of card that you'd use if the permission was for something
my peripheral function that wasn't essential for your app to be useful.
So let's work on that in the next video.